README.md, before:

# flutter_circular_slider

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/davidanaya/flutter-circular-slider.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/davidanaya/flutter-circular-slider) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_circular_slider.svg)](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/flutter_circular_slider)

A customizable circular slider for Flutter.

## Getting Started

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Constructor](#constructor)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)

### Installation

Add

```bash

flutter_circular_slider : ^lastest_version

```

to your pubspec.yaml, and run

```bash
flutter packages get
```

in your project's root directory.

### Basic Usage

Create a new project with command

```
flutter create myapp
```

Edit lib/main.dart like this:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

import 'package:flutter_circular_slider/flutter_circular_slider.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.blue,
      ),
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class MyHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
        backgroundColor: Colors.blueGrey,
        body: Center(
          child: Container(child: DoubleCircularSlider(100, 0, 20)),
        ));
  }
}
```

There are two different options:

- SingleCircularSlider: has only one handler and can be moved either dragging the handler or just by clicking on different parts of the slider.
- DoubleCircularSlider: has two handlers and both have to be moved by dragging them.

![Basic Slider](./doc/basic-slider.gif)

### Constructor

| Parameter                 |                       Default                       | Description                                                                                                             |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| divisions                 |                                                     | The number of sections in which the circle will be divided for selection.                                               |
| init                      |                                                     | (Only for DoubleCircularSlider) The initial value in the selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions. |
| end                       |                                                     | (Only for DoubleCircularSlider) The end value in the selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions.     |
| position                  |                                                     | (Only for SingleCircularSlider) The selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions.                      |
| height                    |                        220.0                        | Height of the canvas where the slider is rendered.                                                                      |
| width                     |                        220.0                        | Width of the canvas where the slider is rendered.                                                                       |
| primarySectors            |                          0                          | Number of sectors painted in the base circle. Painted in selectionColor.                                                |
| secondarySectors          |                          0                          | Number of secondary sectors painted in the base circle. Painted in baseColor.                                           |
| child                     |                        null                         | Widget that will be inserted in the center of the circular slider.                                                      |
| onSelectionChange         | void onSelectionChange(int init, int end, int laps) | Triggered every time the user interacts with the slider and changes the init and end values, and also laps.             |
| onSelectionEnd            |  void onSelectionEnd(int init, int end, int laps)   | Triggered every time the user finish one interaction with the slider.                                                   |
| baseColor                 |         Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.1)          | The color used for the base of the circle.                                                                              |
| selectionColor            |         Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.3)          | The color used for the selection in the circle.                                                                         |
| handlerColor              |                    Colors.white                     | The color used for the handlers.                                                                                        |
| handlerOutterRadius       |                        12.0                         | The radius for the outter circle around the handler.                                                                    |
| showRoundedCapInSelection |                        false                        | (Only for SingleCircularSlider) Shows a rounded cap at the edge of the selection slider with no handler.                |
| showHandlerOutter         |                        true                         | If true will display an extra ring around the handlers.                                                                 |
| sliderStrokeWidth         |                        12.0                         | The stroke width for the slider (thickness).                                                                            |
| shouldCountLaps           |                        false                        | If true, onSelectionChange will also return the updated number of laps.                                                 |
| dashList           |                        null                        | If specified, will draw the base circle as a dashed line. Is a `List<double>`, specifying the Dash intervals.            |

### Use Cases

#### Move complete selection

![Move Selection](./doc/move-selection.gif)

#### Single Handler

![Sleep Single Slider](./doc/single-slider.gif)

#### Laps

![Sleep Single Slider Laps](./doc/single-slider-laps.gif)

![Sleep Double Slider Laps](./doc/double-slider-laps.gif)

#### Sleep Time Selection

```dart
import 'dart:math';

import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

import 'package:flutter_circular_slider/flutter_circular_slider.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.blue,
      ),
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class MyHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
        body: SafeArea(
      child: Container(
          decoration: BoxDecoration(
            image: DecorationImage(
              image: AssetImage('images/background_morning.png'),
              fit: BoxFit.cover,
            ),
          ),
          child: SleepPage()),
    ));
  }
}

class SleepPage extends StatefulWidget {
  @override
  _SleepPageState createState() => _SleepPageState();
}

class _SleepPageState extends State<SleepPage> {
  final baseColor = Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.3);

  int initTime;
  int endTime;

  int inBedTime;
  int outBedTime;

  @override
  void initState() {
    super.initState();
    _shuffle();
  }

  void _shuffle() {
    setState(() {
      initTime = _generateRandomTime();
      endTime = _generateRandomTime();
      inBedTime = initTime;
      outBedTime = endTime;
    });
  }

  void _updateLabels(int init, int end) {
    setState(() {
      inBedTime = init;
      outBedTime = end;
    });
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Column(
      mainAxisAlignment: MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly,
      children: [
        Text(
          'How long did you stay in bed?',
          style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        ),
        DoubleCircularSlider(
          288,
          initTime,
          endTime,
          height: 260.0,
          width: 260.0,
          primarySectors: 6,
          secondarySectors: 24,
          baseColor: Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.1),
          selectionColor: baseColor,
          handlerColor: Colors.white,
          handlerOutterRadius: 12.0,
          onSelectionChange: _updateLabels,
          sliderStrokeWidth: 12.0,
          child: Padding(
            padding: const EdgeInsets.all(42.0),
            child: Center(
                child: Text('${_formatIntervalTime(inBedTime, outBedTime)}',
                    style: TextStyle(fontSize: 36.0, color: Colors.white))),
          ),
        ),
        Row(mainAxisAlignment: MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly, children: [
          _formatBedTime('IN THE', inBedTime),
          _formatBedTime('OUT OF', outBedTime),
        ]),
        FlatButton(
          child: Text('S H U F F L E'),
          color: baseColor,
          textColor: Colors.white,
          shape: RoundedRectangleBorder(
            borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(50.0),
          ),
          onPressed: _shuffle,
        ),
      ],
    );
  }

  Widget _formatBedTime(String pre, int time) {
    return Column(
      children: [
        Text(pre, style: TextStyle(color: baseColor)),
        Text('BED AT', style: TextStyle(color: baseColor)),
        Text(
          '${_formatTime(time)}',
          style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        )
      ],
    );
  }

  String _formatTime(int time) {
    if (time == 0 || time == null) {
      return '00:00';
    }
    var hours = time ~/ 12;
    var minutes = (time % 12) * 5;
    return '$hours:$minutes';
  }

  String _formatIntervalTime(int init, int end) {
    var sleepTime = end > init ? end - init : 288 - init + end;
    var hours = sleepTime ~/ 12;
    var minutes = (sleepTime % 12) * 5;
    return '${hours}h${minutes}m';
  }

  int _generateRandomTime() => Random().nextInt(288);
}
```

![Sleep Slider](./doc/sleep-slider.gif)

Commit message:

add documentation for counter-clockwise property

README.md, after:

# flutter_circular_slider

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/davidanaya/flutter-circular-slider.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/davidanaya/flutter-circular-slider) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Pub](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/flutter_circular_slider.svg)](https://pub.dartlang.org/packages/flutter_circular_slider)

A customizable circular slider for Flutter.

## Getting Started

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Constructor](#constructor)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)

### Installation

Add

```bash

flutter_circular_slider : ^lastest_version

```

to your pubspec.yaml, and run

```bash
flutter packages get
```

in your project's root directory.

### Basic Usage

Create a new project with command

```
flutter create myapp
```

Edit lib/main.dart like this:

```dart
import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

import 'package:flutter_circular_slider/flutter_circular_slider.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.blue,
      ),
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class MyHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
        backgroundColor: Colors.blueGrey,
        body: Center(
          child: Container(child: DoubleCircularSlider(100, 0, 20)),
        ));
  }
}
```

There are two different options:

- SingleCircularSlider: has only one handler and can be moved either dragging the handler or just by clicking on different parts of the slider.
- DoubleCircularSlider: has two handlers and both have to be moved by dragging them.

![Basic Slider](./doc/basic-slider.gif)

### Constructor

| Parameter                 |                       Default                       | Description                                                                                                             |
| :------------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------: | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| divisions                 |                                                     | The number of sections in which the circle will be divided for selection.                                               |
| init                      |                                                     | (Only for DoubleCircularSlider) The initial value in the selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions. |
| end                       |                                                     | (Only for DoubleCircularSlider) The end value in the selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions.     |
| position                  |                                                     | (Only for SingleCircularSlider) The selection. Has to be bigger than 0 and smaller than divisions.                      |
| height                    |                        220.0                        | Height of the canvas where the slider is rendered.                                                                      |
| width                     |                        220.0                        | Width of the canvas where the slider is rendered.                                                                       |
| primarySectors            |                          0                          | Number of sectors painted in the base circle. Painted in selectionColor.                                                |
| secondarySectors          |                          0                          | Number of secondary sectors painted in the base circle. Painted in baseColor.                                           |
| child                     |                        null                         | Widget that will be inserted in the center of the circular slider.                                                      |
| onSelectionChange         | void onSelectionChange(int init, int end, int laps) | Triggered every time the user interacts with the slider and changes the init and end values, and also laps.             |
| onSelectionEnd            |  void onSelectionEnd(int init, int end, int laps)   | Triggered every time the user finish one interaction with the slider.                                                   |
| baseColor                 |         Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.1)          | The color used for the base of the circle.                                                                              |
| selectionColor            |         Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.3)          | The color used for the selection in the circle.                                                                         |
| handlerColor              |                    Colors.white                     | The color used for the handlers.                                                                                        |
| handlerOutterRadius       |                        12.0                         | The radius for the outter circle around the handler.                                                                    |
| showRoundedCapInSelection |                        false                        | (Only for SingleCircularSlider) Shows a rounded cap at the edge of the selection slider with no handler.                |
| showHandlerOutter         |                        true                         | If true will display an extra ring around the handlers.                                                                 |
| sliderStrokeWidth         |                        12.0                         | The stroke width for the slider (thickness).                                                                            |
| shouldCountLaps           |                        false                        | If true, onSelectionChange will also return the updated number of laps.                                                 |
| dashList           |                        null                        | If specified, will draw the base circle as a dashed line. Is a `List<double>`, specifying the Dash intervals.            |
| counterClockwise           |                        false                        | If specified, will draw the slider selection in a counter-clockwise direction.            |


### Use Cases

#### Move complete selection

![Move Selection](./doc/move-selection.gif)

#### Single Handler

![Sleep Single Slider](./doc/single-slider.gif)

#### Laps

![Sleep Single Slider Laps](./doc/single-slider-laps.gif)

![Sleep Double Slider Laps](./doc/double-slider-laps.gif)

#### Sleep Time Selection

```dart
import 'dart:math';

import 'package:flutter/material.dart';

import 'package:flutter_circular_slider/flutter_circular_slider.dart';

void main() => runApp(MyApp());

class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MaterialApp(
      theme: ThemeData(
        primarySwatch: Colors.blue,
      ),
      home: MyHomePage(),
    );
  }
}

class MyHomePage extends StatelessWidget {
  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Scaffold(
        body: SafeArea(
      child: Container(
          decoration: BoxDecoration(
            image: DecorationImage(
              image: AssetImage('images/background_morning.png'),
              fit: BoxFit.cover,
            ),
          ),
          child: SleepPage()),
    ));
  }
}

class SleepPage extends StatefulWidget {
  @override
  _SleepPageState createState() => _SleepPageState();
}

class _SleepPageState extends State<SleepPage> {
  final baseColor = Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.3);

  int initTime;
  int endTime;

  int inBedTime;
  int outBedTime;

  @override
  void initState() {
    super.initState();
    _shuffle();
  }

  void _shuffle() {
    setState(() {
      initTime = _generateRandomTime();
      endTime = _generateRandomTime();
      inBedTime = initTime;
      outBedTime = endTime;
    });
  }

  void _updateLabels(int init, int end) {
    setState(() {
      inBedTime = init;
      outBedTime = end;
    });
  }

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Column(
      mainAxisAlignment: MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly,
      children: [
        Text(
          'How long did you stay in bed?',
          style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        ),
        DoubleCircularSlider(
          288,
          initTime,
          endTime,
          height: 260.0,
          width: 260.0,
          primarySectors: 6,
          secondarySectors: 24,
          baseColor: Color.fromRGBO(255, 255, 255, 0.1),
          selectionColor: baseColor,
          handlerColor: Colors.white,
          handlerOutterRadius: 12.0,
          onSelectionChange: _updateLabels,
          sliderStrokeWidth: 12.0,
          child: Padding(
            padding: const EdgeInsets.all(42.0),
            child: Center(
                child: Text('${_formatIntervalTime(inBedTime, outBedTime)}',
                    style: TextStyle(fontSize: 36.0, color: Colors.white))),
          ),
        ),
        Row(mainAxisAlignment: MainAxisAlignment.spaceEvenly, children: [
          _formatBedTime('IN THE', inBedTime),
          _formatBedTime('OUT OF', outBedTime),
        ]),
        FlatButton(
          child: Text('S H U F F L E'),
          color: baseColor,
          textColor: Colors.white,
          shape: RoundedRectangleBorder(
            borderRadius: BorderRadius.circular(50.0),
          ),
          onPressed: _shuffle,
        ),
      ],
    );
  }

  Widget _formatBedTime(String pre, int time) {
    return Column(
      children: [
        Text(pre, style: TextStyle(color: baseColor)),
        Text('BED AT', style: TextStyle(color: baseColor)),
        Text(
          '${_formatTime(time)}',
          style: TextStyle(color: Colors.white),
        )
      ],
    );
  }

  String _formatTime(int time) {
    if (time == 0 || time == null) {
      return '00:00';
    }
    var hours = time ~/ 12;
    var minutes = (time % 12) * 5;
    return '$hours:$minutes';
  }

  String _formatIntervalTime(int init, int end) {
    var sleepTime = end > init ? end - init : 288 - init + end;
    var hours = sleepTime ~/ 12;
    var minutes = (sleepTime % 12) * 5;
    return '${hours}h${minutes}m';
  }

  int _generateRandomTime() => Random().nextInt(288);
}
```

![Sleep Slider](./doc/sleep-slider.gif)
